Add minutes for the 2026-06-26 Core Maintainers meeting (#29061)
containers/podman: contrib/minutes/20260626.md

* **Decisions & Action Items:**
  * **Decision:** Approved the creation of the repository, officially named **`community`**.
  * **Action Item:** Brent will utilize his organization privileges to create the new repository.
  * **Action Item:** Mohan Boddu will take ownership of populating the initial content, with Ashley Cui providing additional support as needed.

### 2.4. Migration of Remaining Repositories to CNCF Organization
* **Context:** The team reviewed the ongoing effort to migrate repositories into the CNCF-governed structure. The migration is roughly 50% complete, with all repositories requiring Continuous Integration (CI) successfully moved.
* **Remaining Repositories:** The outstanding assets include the `podman.io` and `buildah.io` websites, `go.podman.io` (used for Go vanity imports), and the `image_build` repository (which currently has an open pull request requiring review).

> * **Discussion on Consolidation:** Mohan Boddu raised a previous discussion about merging the `network` and `artwork` repositories prior to migration. Matthew Heon supported this to minimize administrative overhead. However, Paul Holzinger noted there is no immediate pressure to move them, and Brent explicitly expressed opposition to moving or merging them at this time. The decision on those specific repos was deferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Discussion on Consolidation:** Mohan Boddu raised a previous discussion about merging the `netavark` and `aardvark-dns` repositories prior to migration. Matthew Heon supported this to minimize administrative overhead. However, Paul Holzinger noted there is no immediate pressure to move them, and Brent explicitly expressed opposition to moving or merging them at this time. The decision on those specific repos was deferred.
```

| Owner                | Action Item                                                                                               |
|:---------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Paul Holzinger**   | Conduct a comprehensive audit of all non-GitHub project assets.                                           |
| **Matthew Heon**     | Contact the CNCF to officially withdraw the unauthorized incubation application.                          |
| **Core Maintainers** | Post public comments on the open incubation GitHub issue to confirm the joint decision.                   |
| **Matthew Heon**     | Upload the meeting transcript to the repository and share the issue link in `Podman Dev`.                 |
| **Brent**            | Create the new `community` GitHub repository under organization settings.                                 |
| **Mohan Boddu**      | Populate the newly created `community` repository with governance and policy files.                       |
| **Ashley Cui**       | Assist Mohan Boddu with population and review of the `community` repository.                              |

> | **Matthew Heon**     | Drive the migration and maintainer votes for `podman.io`, `buildah.io`, `go.podman.io`, and `ImageBuild`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Matthew Heon**     | Drive the migration and maintainer votes for `podman.io`, `buildah.io`, `go.podman.io`, and `image_build`. |
```

# Podman Core Maintainers Meeting Minutes

**Date:** June 26, 2026
**Time:** 14:28 UTC

---

## 1. Meeting Overview & Attendance

### Present Attendees
* **Matthew Heon** (Red Hat LLC) — Meeting Chair

> * **Paul Holzinger** (Independent / Maintainer)

Reviewer 2: I don't know why it claims I am Independent, but that should say Red Hat, and not LLC, if this should be accurate it would be Red Hat GmbH but I guess it does not matter here

* **Brent** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Mohan Boddu** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Giuseppe Scrivano** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Miloslav Trmac** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Nalin Dahyabhai** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Tom Sweeney** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Laura Santamaria** (Red Hat LLC)
* **Ashley Cui** (Red Hat LLC)

---

## 2. Agenda & Discussion Items

### 2.1. Auditing Permissions Outside of GitHub
* **Context:** Paul Holzinger raised the issue of tracking and auditing administrative permissions for third-party integrations, services, and channels that operate outside of GitHub's access controls.
* **Identified Assets:** * The `podman.io` mailing list (currently hosted on Mailman by the Red Hat Open Source Program Office [OSPO], not CNCF-owned).
  * The official project blog.
  * CNCF Oracle Cloud infrastructure accounts.
  * Read the Docs documentation site (`docs.podman.io`).
  * Community communication channels (Matrix and Discord).

> * **Key Concerns:** While adding new contributors is straightforward, removing access for inactive or departed members is often forgotten. For example, a former maintainer ("Wagashi") still retained access to Read the Docs three years after becoming inactive. Additionally, community channels suffer from spam, and not all active maintainers currently have the necessary moderator privileges to handle it promptly.

Reviewer 2: I guess we should at make an effort to get the names right, Urvashi

* **Discussion:** Currently, these files live in the main Podman repository, which has inadvertently turned it into a top-level organization repository. Moving these files to a standalone, low-traffic repository allows community members to track governance updates without wading through high-volume code issues. Laura Santamaria noted that this follows a standard industry pattern and strongly recommended naming the repository `community`.
* **Decisions & Action Items:**
  * **Decision:** Approved the creation of the repository, officially named **`community`**.
  * **Action Item:** Brent will utilize his organization privileges to create the new repository.
  * **Action Item:** Mohan Boddu will take ownership of populating the initial content, with Ashley Cui providing additional support as needed.

### 2.4. Migration of Remaining Repositories to CNCF Organization
* **Context:** The team reviewed the ongoing effort to migrate repositories into the CNCF-governed structure. The migration is roughly 50% complete, with all repositories requiring Continuous Integration (CI) successfully moved.

> * **Remaining Repositories:** The outstanding assets include the `podman.io` and `buildah.io` websites, `go.podman.io` (used for Go vanity imports), and the `ImageBuild` repository (which currently has an open pull request requiring review).

Reviewer 2: the repo in named image_build

* **Discussion on Consolidation:** Mohan Boddu raised a previous discussion about merging the `network` and `artwork` repositories prior to migration. Matthew Heon supported this to minimize administrative overhead. However, Paul Holzinger noted there is no immediate pressure to move them, and Brent explicitly expressed opposition to moving or merging them at this time. The decision on those specific repos was deferred.
* **Decisions & Action Items:**
  * **Decision:** The migration will proceed for the core remaining repos that meet the established criteria (fundamentally related to Podman, matching licensing/governance rules, and approved by maintainers).

>   * **Action Item:** Matthew Heon will continue to lead the migration process for `podman.io`, `buildah.io`, `go.podman.io`, and `ImageBuild`, including coordinating the necessary maintainer votes.

Reviewer 2: same here

Paul Holzinger: Let's see… It's cooking here, or, well, everywhere, like…

14
00:03:01.760 --> 00:03:02.470
Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Beautiful.

15
00:03:03.310 --> 00:03:08.550
Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Yeah, I'mma… I have no AC, and otherwise it would be impossible to stay home.

16
00:03:10.520 --> 00:03:14.249
Paul Holzinger: Yeah, we don't, know this word in Germany, so…

17
00:03:15.950 --> 00:03:18.569
Paul Holzinger: I don't think Norman also accept ACs here.

18
00:03:22.060 --> 00:03:28.259
Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Yeah, well, here it's, especially in Rome, it's kind of a necessity, because it's hot for several weeks.

19
00:03:29.060 --> 00:03:38.099
Paul Holzinger: Yes, well, it's… it's 35 right now here, so… Not nice.

20
00:03:41.980 --> 00:03:44.460
Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Yeah, but usually it's just a few less, like…

21
00:03:44.810 --> 00:03:48.050
Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Like, it used to be just a few days.

22
00:03:49.080 --> 00:03:51.439
Paul Holzinger: Yeah, it's… but right now it's…

23
00:03:51.550 --> 00:03:57.320
Paul Holzinger: Like, in the 30s for over a week, so it's, not good.

24
00:03:58.140 --> 00:03:58.770

> Giuseppe Scrivano (Red Hat LLC): Yeah.

Reviewer 2: can we cut the stuff above, it is just chatter
